# maryzabeth-philip-recipe-open-api-project: 3 page HTML/CSS/JavaScript Application

## Description
This project's purpose is a multiple page web application that is primarily built to demonstrate an external open API fetch within a practical use. This open api fetch project is incorporated into a small recipe project that presents some of the author's favorite recipes. This project shows the importance of taking into account weather variables (temperature and humidity) into choosing a recipe which is why the Weather Page is the main feature. This project uses introductory skills from HTML, CSS, and JavaScript learned in the introductory programming course with Code The Dream. This project also demonstrates multi-page navigation.

***

### API sources

I am thankful for the open-source services and API's that provided the information need to run the weather and location features of my project.

**Geocoding and Location Data:** Source:Open-meteo Geocoding api (powered by GeoNames) Purpose: convert input of zipcode into longitude and latitude coordinates which are needed to get the local weather conditions. Credit: Geocoding is by Open-meteo Geocoding api which sources its location data from GeoNames. visit https://open-meteo.com for more information. 

**Weather Forecast Data:**
Source: Open-meteo Purpose: Provides the open-source weather information including the maximum and minimum temperatures as well as relative humidity. Credit: Weather data provided by Open-meteo and available at https://open-meteo.com

***

## Page Features: 

**HomePage(index.html):** Introduces project and AI assistant("Ginger Byte"), uses HTML for structure, CSS for styling, and JavaScript for Form with feedback for user

**The Recipe Page (recipes.html)** 3 recipes using responsive design from HTML for structure, CSS layout.

**Weather Page (weather.html):** This page is the primary interactive portion of the project. It uses responsive design from HTML for structure, CSS for style and layout, and Javascript for api fetches. For local weather condition, uses open-api, 2 fetches (geocode location and forecast), and unit conversion. 

***

Instructions on how to setup: 

This project uses HTML, CSS, and JS and does not require a server.

1. **Clone the Repository**
   Use command below to download a local copy using Bash: 
  Use: copy and paste under https: on code (green button) on github
  git clone https://github.com/BytesOfStrength/maryzabeth-philip-recipe-open-api-project.git

2. **Open in Browser :** 
   Go to project folder  and open file "index.html" in your browser (preferably Google Chrome) to start at homepage. You may navigate to other pages from homepage using navigation or go directly to weather page to use the fetch open-api integration features. 

Directions for weather html file that is opened: 

1. User will provide an USA-based 5 digit zipcode. 
2. Then user will press the button that says "Find Location". This will fetch the coordinates for the zipcode provided. (First API Fetch (geocoding)) 
3. The user can then click "Coordinates" button to display the coordinates for the zipcode. 
4. The user will click each of the weather variables buttons for Maximum Temperature, Minimum Temperature, and the Relative Humidity. By pressing the temperatures or relative humidity buttons, the second fetch of the second api endpoint will occur (Forecast API) and the results will display onscreen. 

Additional Features:
  User may choose to have temperature units in either Celsius or Fahrenheit. 

  User is also able to delete their zipcode as well which then resets settings to default values to Towson,MD.

***

## Copyright and Licensing: 

* **AI character** Miss Ginger Byte and all related imagery (e.g., "AIgeneratedModel.jpg")were created and generated by author with AI tools from Canva.

* **Content:** All recipe text and code are original works by the author 

* **Licensing:** Other images which may appear may be personal images from author's own collection and cannot be used without original author's permission. Any images that are given permission to be used from this site must give credit to the author's specific repository and to the author of this original repository.


